README.md, before:

# PolymorphUI

_`pol·y·morph` (noun) An organism, inorganic object or material which takes various forms._

**PolymorphUI** is a collection of variant-based UI components built using [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/).
The component variants are TailwindCSS class strings that you can customize, then use in your code.

## Installation

Install the PolymorphUI components and CLI using the following command:

```bash
# NPM
npm install --save-dev polymorphui
# Yarn
yarn add --dev polymorphui
```

## Getting Started

Getting started with PolymorphUI is the simplest thing ever:

1. Define the component variants and wrap your app with the `PolymorphUiProvider`

   ```typescript jsx
   import App from "./app";
   import { PolymorphUiProvider } from "polymorphui/polymorphui-provider";
   import type { ComponentVariants } from "polymorphui/variant";
   import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
   
   const variants: ComponentVariants = {
     text: {
       default: "text-gray-600 tracking-wide",
       heading: "text-5xl font-medium text-black",
       small: "text-sm",
       /* Other text variants (As many as you want) */
     },
     button: {
       default: "",
       secondary: "bg-orange-500 hover:opacity-85",
       /* Other button variants (As many as you want) */
     },
     /* Other component variants */
   };

   createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
     <BrowserRouter>
       <PolymorphUiProvider variants={variants}>
         <App />
       </PolymorphUiProvider>
     </BrowserRouter>,
   );
   ```

## Usage

```typescript jsx
import { Text } from "polymorphui/text";

/* The "variant" prop defaults to "default" */
<Text>Default text variant</Text>;

/* From the config above, "variant" prop is now typed to "default" | "heading" | "small" */
<Text variant="heading">Heading text variant</Text>;
<Text variant="small">Small text variant</Text>;
```

## Components

PolymorphUI exports the following components:

| Component     | Description                                                               | Docs                                |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `Spinner`     | A component which indicates that an operation is in progress              | [View docs](./docs/spinner.md)      |
| `Badge`       | A component which displays a badge next to an anchor element/component    | [View docs](./docs/badge.md)        |
| `Button`      | A control component which triggers an action                              | [View docs](./docs/button.md)       |
| `Text`        | A component to display standardized text                                  | [View docs](./docs/text.md)         |
| `Popup`       | A component which displays popup content when the trigger is activated    | [View docs](./docs/popup.md)        |
| `Tooltip`     | A component which displays text info about another component when hovered | [View docs](./docs/tooltip.md)      |
| `ContextMenu` | A component which displays action buttons related to a component          | [View docs](./docs/context-menu.md) |
| `Input`       | Base user input component                                                 | [View docs](./docs/input.md)        |
| `TextArea`    | Textarea component with auto-resize capability                            | [View docs](./docs/textarea.md)     |
| `Select`      | An input component which allows a single selection from a list of options | [View docs](./docs/select.md)       |
| `Switch`      | An input component which toggles between two states                       | [View docs](./docs/switch.md)       |
| `Checkbox`    | An input component which toggles between two states                       | [View docs](./docs/checkbox.md)     |
| `RadioGroup`  | An input component which allows a single selection from a list of options | [View docs](./docs/radio-group.md)  |
| `Dialog`      | A component which displays content over the primary window                | [View docs](./docs/dialog.md)       |
| `Tabs`        | A component which displays a single tab panel based on the active tab     | [View docs](./docs/tabs.md)         |
| `Accordion`   | A component which shows and hides sections of related content on a page   | [View docs](./docs/accordion.md)    |

## Contributors

- [Kwame Opare Asiedu](https://github.com/kwameopareasiedu) (Author)

## Changelog

- `0.6.0`
   - Refactored library to use provider pattern for component variants
- `0.5.0`
   - Added [`Badge`](./docs/badge.md) component
   - Named all `forwardRef` components to identify in React devtools
- `0.3.1`
   - Added [`Accordion`](./docs/accordion.md) component

Commit message:

Added Pagination docs. Updated README

README.md, after:

# PolymorphUI

_`pol·y·morph` (noun) An organism, inorganic object or material which takes various forms._

**PolymorphUI** is a collection of variant-based UI components built using [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/).
The component variants are TailwindCSS class strings that you can customize, then use in your code.

## Installation

Install the PolymorphUI components and CLI using the following command:

```bash
# NPM
npm install --save-dev polymorphui
# Yarn
yarn add --dev polymorphui
```

## Getting Started

Getting started with PolymorphUI is the simplest thing ever:

1. Define the component variants and wrap your app with the `PolymorphUiProvider`

   ```typescript jsx
   import App from "./app";
   import { PolymorphUiProvider } from "polymorphui/polymorphui-provider";
   import type { ComponentVariants } from "polymorphui/variant";
   import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
   
   const variants: ComponentVariants = {
     text: {
       default: "text-gray-600 tracking-wide",
       heading: "text-5xl font-medium text-black",
       small: "text-sm",
       /* Other text variants (As many as you want) */
     },
     button: {
       default: "",
       secondary: "bg-orange-500 hover:opacity-85",
       /* Other button variants (As many as you want) */
     },
     /* Other component variants */
   };

   createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
     <BrowserRouter>
       <PolymorphUiProvider variants={variants}>
         <App />
       </PolymorphUiProvider>
     </BrowserRouter>,
   );
   ```

## Usage

```typescript jsx
import { Text } from "polymorphui/text";

/* The "variant" prop defaults to "default" */
<Text>Default text variant</Text>;

/* From the config above, "variant" prop is now typed to "default" | "heading" | "small" */
<Text variant="heading">Heading text variant</Text>;
<Text variant="small">Small text variant</Text>;
```

## Components

PolymorphUI exports the following components:

| Component     | Description                                                               | Docs                                |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `Spinner`     | A component which indicates that an operation is in progress              | [View docs](./docs/spinner.md)      |
| `Badge`       | A component which displays a badge next to an anchor element/component    | [View docs](./docs/badge.md)        |
| `Button`      | A control component which triggers an action                              | [View docs](./docs/button.md)       |
| `Text`        | A component to display standardized text                                  | [View docs](./docs/text.md)         |
| `Popup`       | A component which displays popup content when the trigger is activated    | [View docs](./docs/popup.md)        |
| `Tooltip`     | A component which displays text info about another component when hovered | [View docs](./docs/tooltip.md)      |
| `ContextMenu` | A component which displays action buttons related to a component          | [View docs](./docs/context-menu.md) |
| `Input`       | Base user input component                                                 | [View docs](./docs/input.md)        |
| `TextArea`    | Textarea component with auto-resize capability                            | [View docs](./docs/textarea.md)     |
| `Select`      | An input component which allows a single selection from a list of options | [View docs](./docs/select.md)       |
| `Switch`      | An input component which toggles between two states                       | [View docs](./docs/switch.md)       |
| `Checkbox`    | An input component which toggles between two states                       | [View docs](./docs/checkbox.md)     |
| `RadioGroup`  | An input component which allows a single selection from a list of options | [View docs](./docs/radio-group.md)  |
| `Dialog`      | A component which displays content over the primary window                | [View docs](./docs/dialog.md)       |
| `Tabs`        | A component which displays a single tab panel based on the active tab     | [View docs](./docs/tabs.md)         |
| `Accordion`   | A component which shows and hides sections of related content on a page   | [View docs](./docs/accordion.md)    |
| `Pagination`  | A component which displays pagination buttons for a list of items         | [View docs](./docs/pagination.md)   |

## Contributors

- [Kwame Opare Asiedu](https://github.com/kwameopareasiedu) (Author)

## Changelog

- `0.7.0`
   - Added [Pagination](./docs/pagination.md) component
   - Replaced `default` key in component variants objects with `replaceDefault` and `appendDefault` which replace and
     addon to the default class names respectively
   - Fixed `z-index` class names for [Dialog](./docs/dialog.md) and [Select](./docs/select.md) components
- `0.6.0`
   - Refactored library to use provider pattern for component variants
- `0.5.0`
   - Added [Badge](./docs/badge.md) component
   - Named all `forwardRef` components to identify in React devtools
- `0.3.1`
   - Added [Accordion](./docs/accordion.md) component
